Wall Street's AI panic is out of
control. On Thursday, February 12th, a
karaoke company managed to crash the
stock market over AI fears. This is a
company called Algorithm Holdings, and
they put out just a press release
claiming their logistics platform could
help customers scale freight volumes by
3 to 400% without adding headcounts.
Within hours, CH Robinson Worldwide, one
of the largest freight brokerages on the
planet, plunged 24%. The Russell 3000
trucking index as a whole had its worst
day since liberation day and billions in
market cap evaporated across global
logistics from Dallas all the way to
Denmark. Algorithm Holdings has a market
capitalization of $6 million. That is
small for the stock market. It might be
big for our bank accounts, but it's
small for the stock market. It reported
less than $2 million in quarterly
revenue and a net loss of nearly $3
million. Until 2024, this company was
called the Singing Machine Company. It
sold karaoke products. So, a former
karaoke company worth $6 million at best
just wiped billions of dollars off an
entire sector of the global economy. And
the part that should concern you is not
just the absurdity. It's the fact that
this is now the fifth time in 10 days.
Each time in a different industry, each
time triggered by a different AI
announcement, each time following the
exact same pattern. The pattern is the
story, and the pattern has consequences
that go far beyond stock prices. This is
the AI scare trade, and we're going to
get into it. The sequence of the trade
matters, so let's follow it very
closely. On February 2nd, Palunteer
reported quarterly earnings that
obliterated expectations. 70% revenue
growth, the guidance of 61%
forward-looking for fiscal 2026. CEO
Alex Karp claimed Palanteer's tools
could compress complex SAP enterprise
migrations from years of work to as
little as 2 weeks. And the stock jumped
8% after hours. The market heard the
subtext. If one company can do that,
every company selling enterprise
software on a per seat basis is
repricing. So the next day, Anthropic
released new co-work plugins for legal
work, contract review, compliance
workflows, legal summaries. I made a
video about this and what happened is
that within 48 hours about $285 billion
in market cap vanished from SAS, legal
tech and data analytic stocks. The
Jeffre Equity Trading Desk gave the
blood bath on the stock market a name,
the SAS apocalypse. And that stuck. That
was just week one. Then the contagion
jumped. Private credit and alternative
asset managers like Aries, KKR, TPG,
Apollo, and Blackstone all fell between
eight and 10% on fears that AI could
analyze deals and manage portfolios.
Insurance brokers got hit next after a
company called Insurify released an AI
rate comparison tool. The S&P 500
insurance index posted its worst session
since October. Wealth management
followed the day after that, triggered
by Altruist, a startup most people have
never heard of, launching an AI tax
planning tool. Raymond James fell 8.8%.
Schwab dropped 7.4%. You get the idea.
Real estate services came next. CBRE and
Jones Lang Lasal each fell 12%. Kushman
and Wakefield dropped 14%. Worst single
day decline since the COVID crash. Then
office REIT started bleeding on the
theory that AI would reduce headcount,
which would reduce office demand, which
would reduce rent. And then the karaoke
company came for logistics. So in 10
days, the AI scare trade has burned
through software, private credit,
insurance, wealth management, real
estate services, logistics, drug
distribution, and commercial office
space. Eight different sectors. Each
sell-off was triggered by a different
company in a different industry with a
different product announcement. But the
market's reaction was identical every
time. Dump first, analyze later. Favuza,
the Jeffre trader who named the SAS
apocalypse the SAS apocalypse. credit to
him described the broader dynamic in a
note to clients on Thursday. For every
corner of the market right now, there is
an aggressive shoot first ask questions
later for any area where there's an AI
headline. He's right, but what he's
describing isn't a market efficiently
pricing disruption. It is something much
more interesting and more dangerous.
Fundamentally, Wall Street has developed
an autoimmune disorder. The immune
system risk repricing is attacking
healthy tissue because it can no longer
distinguish between what's real and
what's not. And just like an autoimmune
disorder, the damage caused by the
immune response is now much worse than
the disease it's reacting to. This is
the mechanism of damage that we are all
going to need to pay attention to. When
CH Robinson drops 24% in a day, that
isn't just a number on a screen for the
15,000 people who work there. That is a
board meeting next week. That is a
hiring freeze announced next month. That
is the Q2 roadmap getting torn apart and
rewritten around AI strategy. Whether or
not the company actually has a coherent
AI strategy. That is the CFO pulling
forward cost cuts to demonstrate to
investors that management does take this
transition seriously. Stock drop doesn't
just reflect reality, it creates
reality. A company whose stock craters
on AI fears is going to start behaving
as if AI is an existential threat. Even
if the actual tech is years away from
threatening its core business, defensive
postures get adopted right away.
Innovation budgets get redirected from
organic growth to performative AI
partnerships. Headcount plans are going
to get revised downward. Not because AI
replaced anybody, but because the market
priced in the expectation that it would.
Goldman Sachs CEO David Solomon said
Tuesday that the sell-off was quote too
broad. JP Morgan strategists see
potential for a software rebound based
on quote an overly bearish outlook on AI
disruption. They're all probably right,
but the correction, if it comes, is not
going to undo the organizational
decisions that were made during this
panic. The hiring freeze is going to be
real for many of these companies. The
roadmap pivot is going to be real for
many of these companies and it's going
to last for quarters. The budget
reallocation is going to be real. The
stock market may recover in a week or
two. The strategic damage this is
causing to these companies is going to
take months or years to start to unwind.
And in the meantime, there's actual real
AI disruption going on that they need to
respond to on a business time scale, not
a market time scale. And those are two
different time scales. The market is
going to demand a performative response
when they should be allocating resources
to a strategic business response. And
this is the reflexivity that almost
nobody in the financial press is talking
about. The scare trade is going to
become a self-fulfilling prophecy. Not
because AI is doing the disrupting, but
because the market reaction to AI is
forcing companies into this defensive
crouch posture that makes them much more
vulnerable to real disruption,
ironically, from AI. So, the companies
that respond to a 15% stock drop by
gutting out their product teams and
signing a splashy AI partnership are the
ones that are going to get actually
disrupted in 3 years, not by a karaoke
company, but by a competitor that used
this moment to invest in genuine AI
capability and not investor optics. I
want to be clear, the market is not
entirely wrong, but it's hitting a fly
with a hammer. It is catastrophically
imprecise. The scare trade is treating
every industry identically and that is
the error. There are at least three
distinct categories of AI exposure and
the market is pricing every single one
of them the exact same way which is
incorrect. The mispricing here is where
the real story lives for investors for
founders and for all of us whose
livelihood depends on any of these
sectors which is increasingly well
beyond tech. The first category is
sectors where AI is genuinely displacing
labor today. Software development is a
clear example. Cursor, the AI coding
editor, hit $300 million in annualized
revenue, faster than almost any software
product in history. It is well past 500
million now. It continues to climb.
Strong DM is famously talking about
paying uh a,000 bucks for tokens per
developer per day and no humans doing
code review. It's easy for them to come
up with those numbers because they have,
I think, three engineers on staff at
last count or something. Meanwhile,
Palunteer's own numbers uh the 61%
forwardguided growth for 2026 are proof
that demand for AI native enterprise
software continues to accelerate. So the
SAS companies whose business models
depend on selling seats to humans may
well be in trouble. The market is right
about them. I think not necessarily
about the speed. Those businesses won't
vanish overnight. And not about the
data. You will still need somewhere to
put the data. You will still need a
single ringable neck. Comparative
advantage still matters. You will not
want to build everything yourself. But
the assumption that all of software
bottlenecks on humans is incorrect. And
per seat pricing is in trouble. So those
companies are going to need to adapt
their business models to survive. The
ones that don't are going to get
repriced out gradually or disrupted
suddenly. That's the category most at
risk. That's the category I described in
my SAS apocalypse video. The second
category is sectors where AI may matter
on a three to fiveyear horizon, but
where the current panic vastly
overstates the near-term risk. Wealth
management is a really great example. An
AI tool that does tax planning cannot
replace a wealth advisor any more than
Turboax can replace accountants. The
value in wealth management actually
isn't doing calculating work. It's the
relationship. It's the trust. It's the
behavioral coaching that keeps clients
from panic selling during a downturn.
And yes, I'm aware of the irony of
wealth management clients panic selling
their wealth management stocks because
of AI fears. It is almost too perfect.
Insurance brokerage is a similar
business. Insurifi's rate comparison
tool is useful, but the actual work of a
commercial insurance broker involves
negotiation, claims management, industry
specific risk assessment. Current AI
systems are not going to immediately
replicate that. These sectors are going
to change with AI, but they're not going
to change overnight in the next quarter.
The market is pricing in a gradual
transition over the next few years as if
it's happening by earning season and
it's going to be catastrophic no matter
what. That's just wrong. And if you
think that's just wrong, wait till you
get to the third category. The third
category is where the market has just
lost the plot entirely. A former karaoke
company's press release about freight
optimization does not invalidate CH
Robinson's relationships with a 100,000
shippers and carriers. Nor does it
invalidate its proprietary data on
freight lines and pricing or its ability
to handle the physical, regulatory, and
contractual complexity of moving goods
across borders. commercial real estate
services, CBRE managing billions in
property transactions, they don't get
automated because Claude can draft a
lease summary. As Croup analyst Ariel
Rosa put it about algorithm, quote, I
would probably be more inclined to be
skeptical that this particular company
is going to be the one to disrupt the
industry. I think Ariel was being very
kind with that quote. But there's an
important qualifier here. Eventually,
disruption is going to come. The
timeline the market is pricing in is
delusional. the company they are
choosing to react to is completely
bonkers. But the idea that AI is going
to have changes across every industry is
not incorrect. The investment
implication for all of this is pretty
stark. The market is creating
effectively a generational buying
opportunity in some of these sectors
while correctly repricing them in
others. The skill is knowing which is
which. And the answer is going to depend
on understanding with specificity, not
with panic, what AI can actually do in
each vertical today versus what it may
do in 5 years. Again, none of this is
investment advice. I am not actively
trading these companies. All I want to
do is help everyone understand where AI
actually is today, where AI is not, and
how we can think about capital
reallocation a little bit more
intelligently because people's
livelihoods really are on the line. When
I talked about the idea that we all are
affected as employees, as workers when
these things happen, I'm not kidding. I
have lived through situations where a
market repricing has generated direct
impact on headcounts, not because of
business fundamentals, but because
market perception is driving realities.
That's wrong. We shouldn't be doing
that. We should be thinking more
intelligently about AI. We owe it to our
businesses. We owe it to ourselves. We
owe it to our employees. We owe it to
our teams. So, let's dive into category
one, the one that is most affected, SAS
businesses. The scare trade is not just
moving stock prices there. It's moving
capital in ways that are going to
reshape the competitive landscape for a
long time to come. Let's follow the
money here. Public SAS multiples are
crashing. The S&P software index is down
roughly 20% year-to date, and privately
held AI companies continue to ascend to
valuations that would have been
unthinkable just a year ago. Open AAI
and Anthropic and XAI collectively are
well over a trillion dollars in private
valuation. Anthropic raised another
several hundred million $300 million I
think at a $380 billion valuation just
this past week. Open AAI is likely to
IPO at I would guess a trillion dollar
valuation later this year. That is a
guess. That is not a projection.
Anthropic is in early IPO discussions as
well. And global venture capital
continues to skew toward AI with nearly
half a trillion dollars deployed in
2025.
This feedback loop toward AI away from
SAS is very much self-reinforcing and
vicious. Public SAS valuations are
cratering. Private SAS valuations are
compressing in sympathy because
investors just don't see the future. And
it doesn't matter if you are a SAS
company with a creative and innovative
approach to solving the Percy problem.
If you get hung with the SAS tag, which
was a benefit for all of the twins, it's
now an albatross around your neck.
Meanwhile, AI startups, regardless of
whether they're good or not, look
relatively more attractive to everybody.
You stick AI in the name, and magical
things happen right now. Magically, more
capital will flow to the AI company that
has AI in the name and releases an AI
press release than to anybody else. It's
not fair. It's not correct. There will
certainly be lots of companies that go
to the wall that were overfunded who
have AI in the name and released an AI
press release. But capital allocation
typically isn't fair. And especially
when we're talking about a chance to
reshape the fundamental technology
landscape in a way that we haven't seen
since the advent of computing. Nobody
wants to miss out. That is what is
driving the obsession with getting into
AI and out of SAS for investors. FOMO.
for founders at SAS companies who are
looking to go public. The window shifted
or evaporated. The IPO pipeline was
supposed to finally be open wide in
2026. And I would say that expectation
has shifted out a year or more at this
point. Not because the companies
involved are worse, but because the
public market's appetite for anything
that looks like a traditional software
business has just evaporated at this
point. If your company is perceived as
AI vulnerable, which it looks like
everybody is in the market's eyes right
now, and even if you've deeply
integrated AI into your product, you're
now fighting a narrative headwind that
did not exist 3 months ago. And that is
going to have again real implications on
real lives. Some companies will delay,
some will have lower valuations. It's
going to change exits for employees,
some will pivot to M&A in the private
markets. Wellington noted that the
median time to IPO for companies valued
above half a billion dollars has now
stretched out to 11 years, the longest
in a decade. The scare trade makes that
number even worse. For AI native
founders, the capital environment has
never been better, but the scrutiny is
way, way sharper. CLO went public with
an AI powered story and is now trading
near its first day closing price, which
is down. The lesson is that AI powered
is not a blank check long-term.
Investors are interested in the AI
story, but they need you to deliver on
it in order to sustain capital
valuations. Part of why hyperscalers
continue to raise these rounds, I think
anthropic was at a series G, is because
they keep delivering on the revenue
story. That is going to be an
expectation even if you are one of the
lucky ones with AI in the company name.
So what does this actually mean for your
career? Most of us aren't investors.
Most of us are not capital allocators.
Most of us are not founders. Here is
where the conversation gets personal for
people who work in tech or increasingly
anyone who works in an industry that the
scare trade has touched which is way
outside tech. The most important thing
to understand is that the stock price
drop and the job risk are operating on
different time scales but they are now
feeding each other in ways that create
real consequences for those of us whose
jobs AI cannot yet do that are not yet
vulnerable to AI. When your company's
stock drops 15% on AI fears, the
technology did not change at all. But
the organizational response is going to.
And so when every company is watching
its peers get hammered in the scare
trade, every company is going to be
scrambling competitively to announce an
AI transformation initiative that
changes the market story on their
company. The question you should be
asking this week if you work in any of
these affected sectors or frankly
anywhere where the AI narrative could
hit you, which if a karaoke company can
crash the entire logistics market, I
would say all of us need to be thinking
about this because the market is being
insane right now. The question you
should be asking is where the AI budget
for this AI transformation that your
company is probably working on is coming
from. Where is that money going to come
from? If the money is net new investment
layered on top of existing capabilities,
that's a company positioning for a
transition. But if the money is being
taken from the product order or taken
from the engineering team, the people
who actually understand the business are
optimizing for an investor narrative,
not a product story that they can
actually stand behind. One of those
strategies, the first one, is going to
potentially give you a shot at a
competitive advantage if you execute
that transition. If you incrementally
invest in AI over the top of your
existing capabilities, if you just start
to steal money from your core technical
teams, you're going to get a press
release. You're going to get a headcount
reduction, and you're going to have
regrets. So, watch what your company is
building versus what it's choosing to
buy. If your company is saying, "We can
buy some fancy tool and reduce headcount
for PMs," you should be asking questions
and polishing the resume. The scare
trade is creating a really, really sharp
split right now between organizations
that truly understand what it takes to
integrate AI into their workflows and
are interested in learning what works
and developing institutional knowledge
about what the tech can do and what it
cannot do in a very specific domain
versus organizations that are in a panic
that never understood AI where the CEO
is reading LinkedIn posts about OpenClaw
and they're just going to respond in
that panic by announcing a partnership
with an AI vendor and praying and hoping
the stock recovers and then cutting some
headcount. The latter is not a strategy.
The latter is not responsible leadership
and the latter is not going to lead to
long-term company success. Ironically,
the people responding to the AI scare
trade, the leaders responding to the AI
scare trade by panicking and announcing
a narrative roadmap that is mostly
spoken mirrors are going to be the ones
most vulnerable to AI disruption later.
While the builders meanwhile are going
to develop a compounding advantage as
they build into their current workflows
and the models keep getting smarter and
what they build keeps getting more
useful. AI compounds for people who use
it smartly. The buyers, the ones who
want to just buy a tool and be done with
it and have a narrative and announce a
partnership, they're going to get a logo
on the slide deck. But 12 months from
now, the gap between the ones who are
building and the ones who are just
buying a vendor and praying is going to
be very, very visible. Ironically, I
think the people most at risk in this
moment are not the ones whose jobs AI
can replace today. Instead, they're the
ones in any kind of cost center for
companies whose stocks just dropped on
AI fears. They're not going to look
beyond is it a cost center. Is it in
product? Is it in engineering? Is it in
customer success? Anything that counts
as a cost on the balance sheet. The
market does not distinguish between this
role will be automated and this role is
at a company under AI pressure. both
will get cut. Even though that's unfair,
a corporate operations analyst at a
logistics company that just dropped 16%.
Is more immediately at risk than an
identical analyst at a manufacturing
company. Not because the AI threat is
any different or because AI can
immediately do that job, but because the
stock pressure is different. The scare
trade is a very, very blunt instrument,
and blunt instruments create a ton of
collateral damage that affects our
lives. But there's a rosier side to this
story. If you look carefully, there's an
asymmetry here that almost no one
sitting inside a panicking company is
thinking about. The scare trade can be
the best thing that could happen to you
if you're positioned correctly as a
professional in these businesses. Every
company panicking about AI is about to
spend heavily on AI capabilities. That
spending creates roles, it creates
budgets, it creates initiatives, and it
creates career paths that did not exist
a few months ago and that maybe would
not have existed for a couple of years
without this scare. So the person who
spent the last year building genuine AI
fluency, not just asking chat GPT to
write the emails, but understanding how
to integrate AI into business workflows,
they're now in the position to bridge
the gap between what the seuite is being
told by vendors in the board and what
the technology can actually do. That
person, it might be you, just became the
most valuable person in all of these new
org charts that are being redrawn. The
career move isn't learn AI. That's what
we were talking about in 2024. It's very
much table stakes now. And table stakes
are not going to get you promoted. The
career move during a scare trade like
this is more specific and more urgent.
Every company that just watch its sector
get hammered and the ones who may be
about to because I don't know that this
is done. They're going to be asking the
same question internally. What can AI do
in our business? How can we get to
workflows to data? How can we move on a
timeline the board will accept? How can
we get past a slide deck? Even the
companies that are tempted to go with
whisbang flash press releases typically
do a little bit of work to try and make
them real. And in almost every
organization, the number of people who
can answer that question with real
specificity rather than just pariting
vendor marketing or gesturing vaguely at
the word like transformation. If the the
number of people who can connect a
domain, their expertise and artificial
intelligence and where it's going, that
number is vanishingly small at any given
company. And that gap is the single
largest career opportunity out there
right now. Think about what happens in
the next 90 days inside a company whose
stock just got capped 12% on AI fears.
The CEO is going to call an emergency
leadership meeting. The board is going
to demand an AI strategy. the chief
strategy officer might put together a
task force. We've all been there. We've
read the headlines. They've got fear in
their eyes. The person who is able to
step up without fear in that world
becomes indispensable. Not because of
their old role, not because they're a
machine learning engineer or a product
manager or in revops, but because they
are able to walk into a room of
panicking executives and say, you know,
I've been testing this. Here's what
Claude can actually do with our contract
review workflow. It handles about 70% of
the initial analysis accurately. These
are the conditional clauses it tends to
miss. And this is where it cross
references correctly and where it cross
references incorrectly. And so we need
to introduce a human check at this
specific stage in the process. If we
deploy it like this, we can cut our
overall review time by 40%. And we can
reduce outside council spend by maybe a
fifth of a million dollars. And here's
the implementation plan. Here's what it
costs. Here's what it doesn't do. We're
not going to overpromise to the board.
This is a specific project we can do
that has real impact on the bottom line
today. That person does not exist in
most organizations right now. The
technical people understand the models
but not the business. The business
people understand the workflows but have
never used the tools on a real world
product and are often scared of the
terminal. And so something like cloud
code is scary to them. And the
consultants often understand neither of
them. They understand frameworks. So the
gap between I've heard AI can do this
and I've tested it and here's what it
does for our company is a canyon and the
scare trade just made crossing that
canyon the most valuable thing anyone in
the organization can do. The job here is
domain translator. Really it won't get
called that but that's what it is. And
the scare trade has supercharged the
demand for that role and compressed the
timeline. 6 months ago, if you were the
person who understood AI in your
company's domain, that was a great
career differentiator. You were setting
yourself up well. Today, it's the
difference between being on the task
force and being on the layoff list. The
concrete version of this looks different
depending on where you sit. Obviously,
if you're an ops, it means you've
already taken your team's most
repetitive workflow and you've run it
through an AI tool, not as a demo, as an
actual parallel process with real data
tracking where it works and where it
breaks. If you're in legal, product, HR,
sales, it's the same principle. The
person who has done the work of testing
AI against real workflows in the real
domains that they operate in. Those are
the people who can articulate the
results with precision. And those are
the people the organization cannot
afford to lose right now. The people who
will get cut are the ones who cannot
distinguish their work from what AI is
able to do. If your contribution right
now to the workforce is synthesis,
reading documents, summarizing
information, producing reports that
aggregate other people's work, you are
competing directly with a tool that does
that faster and does that cheaper and
the scare trade just made your CEO very
aware of that. If your contribution is
judgment, knowing which information
matters, why the standard approach won't
work for this client, what the model is
missing because it doesn't understand
the regulatory history or the
relationship dynamics, well then you are
more valuable now than you were a month
ago because the organization just
realized it can't automate its way to
that judgment and it needs people who
have it in the upcoming AI transition.
Now, I'm not here to say organizations
don't make mistakes. I have seen plenty
of high judgment people incorrectly laid
off. But the odds are better if you have
that ability and if people know that you
have it and it goes beyond AI. The
asymmetry here is extreme. The scare
trade is simultaneously destroying
career value for people who were
coasting on process work and creating
tremendous career upside for people who
can combine domain expertise with AI
fluency. The gap between these two
groups was growing anyway to be honest
with you. But the stock market selloff
made it visible to senior leadership to
the seauite to the board in almost every
company in America in the span of just a
few days. And because of the prominence
of the American stock market, there are
boards all over the world looking at
this. Now visibility like this is what
turns a slow trend into an urgent
capital reallocation in favor of AI. I'm
not kidding when I say the AI scare
trade is speeding up AI transformation
by years at tens of thousands of
businesses. The scare trade is a
transfer of career capital from the
people who treated AI as somebody else's
problem to the people who have been
invested in understanding it. The stock
drops are just the visible part of that.
The org chart reshuffleling is the part
that determines your next 5 years. Look,
AI disruption is real. It's not evenly
distributed and the market's current
method of pricing it, which is really a
sectorwide panic triggered by press
releases from companies with $6 million
market caps. It's creating a mispricing
so severe that it constitutes at the
same time a historic investment
opportunity and a historic reallocation
of organizational attention. The
companies that are going to lose in this
new world are the ones that mistake the
market's panic for a strategic signal
and don't think carefully. The ones that
choose to respond by gutting their teams
and signing performative partnerships
and praying that the stock recovers are
going to be in trouble. The companies
that win are going to be the ones that
use the panic as cover to invest in
genuine AI capability in the domain
expertise that makes AI useful rather
than generic. in the people who
understand both the tech and the
business well enough to know where real
leverage lies. The scare trade is
repricing the future. We can't do
anything about that. The question is
whether you're going to let the market's
fear redefine your strategy or whether
you're going to build the thing that the
market will reward long term. The
disruption is real. The timeline is
completely bonkers right now. And the
opportunity that that creates is
unprecedented. And somehow an AI karaoke
company helped to kick off all of it.